---
layout: blog
title: "Rest Full API"
permalink: /:title
categories: RestAPI
---

# What is restful API ?
Representational State Transfer (REST) was created as an idea to use simple HTTP in order to make calls between virtual machines, instead of such complex techniques as the Remote Procedure Call (RPC), Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA), or Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP). REST is not standard but, rather, it is an architectural style or set of principles geared at creating APIs to ensure interoperability between Internet-based computer systems


The main advantages of REST are:
- **Simplicity**
    RESTful APIs use HTTP methods for communication. You can use Python, JavaScript, Ruby, C#, and other languages to develop APIs, making them easy for most developers to work with.
- **Fast performance**
    REST APIs are format agnostic, and you can use XML, JSON, HTML, and more. This makes REST APIs fast and lightweight, which is essential for mobile app projects, IoT devices, and more.
- **Fully-featuring**
    REST APIs allow you to organize complex applications and simplifies the use of resources.
- **Realiability**
    In a REST API system, the client and server operate independently using different technology stacks.
- **Scalability**
    Stateless communication and a replicated repository provide a high level of scalability.


## BEST PRACTICES FOR BUILDING A RESTFUL API

- **Rest Api Naming conventions**

Nouns Are Preferable, Over Verbs REST-styled code is based on nouns, with verbs being utilized mostly for commands. Use nouns to define the path for a particular command, as follows:

`GET / users` is better than `GET / getUsers` `GET /users/987` is better than `GET /getUserWithId/987` `POST /users` is better than``GET /createNewUser`

- **Using plural** or singular nouns for defining resources has no any impact on how your API will work; however, there are common conventions that are used in all good RESTful APIs. One of such conventions is the use of plural nouns for defining resources.

`/users` is better than `/user` and `/users/16` is better than `/user/16`

Note: avoid mixing singular and plural nouns.

- Represent *complex paraeters with query string*.
In RESTful APIs, a query string (“?”) is commonly used for setting complex parameters to define resources. It keeps the URL short, logical, and simple. Remember that all optional parameters have to be recognized through a query string.

`GET /users?location=US&age=21`

- Rest API pagination
 Pagination ensures the easy handling of numerous request results. For example, your web service contains hundreds or thousands of pages. When you request to display all its pages, you will get the same number of results, in return. It overloads the user interface and takes more time to display. Pagination divides the results by specific parts and displays them in the specific order. Also, you can find more about user interface design for web applications in our blog.

**USE A LIMIT PARAMETER**
When you request some data and you know the results will fill numerous pages, you should set the limit of results per one page:

`GET "http://resource.../page?limit=10";`

The limit, which is set after the query string, regulates the number of results that have to be displayed on one page. Use a Start Parameter If you need to display specific results on a page, you should use a “start” parameter. Set a limit parameter and the first result which should be displayed after the query string:

`GET "http://resource.../page?limit=10&start=21";`

This command will display the page with ten results starting from the 21st one.

- use a hyphen to increase url friendliness
To allow users easily read your URL, use hyphens (“-”) or even a camel case, instead of one long line of words. In all RESTful APIs, a hyphen equates to a space:

/techcrunch.com/2017/09/24/techcrunchs-startup-battlefield-australia-joined-by-leading-aussie-names/

- Avoid using underscores in urls


# What are RESTful API authentication methods?

RESTful API has four common authentication methods:

*HTTP authentication*
HTTP defines some authentication schemes that you can use directly when you are implementing REST API. The following are two of these schemes:

**Basic authentication**

In basic authentication, the client sends the user name and password in the request header. It encodes them with base64, which is an encoding technique that converts the pair into a set of 64 characters for safe transmission.

**Bearer authentication**

The term bearer authentication refers to the process of giving access control to the token bearer. The bearer token is typically an encrypted string of characters that the server generates in response to a login request. The client sends the token in the request headers to access resources.

**API keys**

API keys are another option for REST API authentication. In this approach, the server assigns a unique generated value to a first-time client. Whenever the client tries to access resources, it uses the unique API key to verify itself. API keys are less secure because the client has to transmit the key, which makes it vulnerable to network theft.

**OAuth**

OAuth combines passwords and tokens for highly secure login access to any system. The server first requests a password and then asks for an additional token to complete the authorization process. It can check the token at any time and also over time with a specific scope and longevity.