---
layout: blog
title: "Agile Methodologies"
permalink: /:title
categories: "Agile"
---

# Difference Between Agile and water fall

| Water fall              | Agile                 |
| ----------------------- | :-------------------- |
| Prescriptive            | Abstract              |
| Extensive documentation | Minimal documentation |
| Sequential              | Continuous            |
| Formal                  | Informal              |
| Process focus           | Communication focus   |
| Gradual change          | Rapid change          |

# Manifesto for Agile Software development

- **Indiviuals and interactions** over process and tools
- **Working software** over comprehensive documentation
- **Customer collaboration** over contract negotiation
- **Responding to change** over following a plan

# Principles behind the Agile Manifesto

- Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
- Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile process harness change for the customer's ccompetitive advantage.
- Deliver working software frquently, form a couple of weeks tp a couple od months, with a preference to the shorer timescale.
- Business people and developer must work together daily throughtout the project.
- Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
- The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-face conversation.
- Working software is the primary measure of progress
- Agile processes promote sustainable development.The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintian a constant pace indefinitely.
- Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.
- Simplicity -- the art of maximizing the amount of work not done -- is essential.
- The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
- At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behaviour accordingly.

# Similarities and differences between different agile methodologies.

| Agile Methodology                          | Emphasis                                                                         | Founder(s)                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------- |
| Extreme Programming XP                     | Efficiency, customer focus, feedback and quality                                 | Kent Beck                        |
| Scrum                                      | Teaming, organizing work                                                         | Jeff Sutherland and Ken Schwaber |
| Feature-Driven Development                 | Iterrative development of user focused features                                  | Jeff De Luca                     |
| Dynamic Sysytems Development Method (DSDM) | Structured approch to rapid development, collection of best practices            | DSDNM Consortium                 |
| Lean Software development                  | Eliminate work that does not create customer value                               | Mary and Tom Poppendieck         |
| Kanban Method                              | Visualize and manage workflow, just in time development                          | David J. Anderson                |
| Crystal Family                             | People, communication, process rigor maps to product and organizational dynamics | Alistair Cockburn                |

## Extreme Programming (XP)

- Techniques and Principle
  - Frequent releases and short dev cycles
  - Pair programming
  - Regular builds and intergartion tests
  - Quality and avoiding code breakage.
  - Simplicity of code, coding only what is needed
  - Rapid and regular feedback

## SCRUM

- Techniques and principles
  - Product Backlog
  - Sprint Backlog
  - Daily sync /standups
  - iterartion/sprints 2-4 weeks
  - Potentially shiappable product increment.

## Feature Driven Development

- Techniques and Principles
  - 2 Week iterations
  - **Create the model** - Perform an inital customer walkthrought that determine scope and context and creates the model.
  - **Develop the feature list** - The model determine the features
  - **Proritise the features**
    - The plan is determined by features - FDD advocates that teams create a development plan that is based on orderining them to classes. Classes are then assigned to an owning developers.
    - The design is based on the features - The owning developer assigns a set of features that can be developed in two weeks. Detailed ssequence diagrams are created based on features and the overall model is updated to reflact the changes. Classes are written, and design review is held.
    - The bild is based on the features - Code is developd based on feedback from the design review. Once the developer completes the code and unit testing. then a code review is held to analyze whether final changes are needed. Final updates to the code are made and the code promoted to current build.

## DSDM

- Focuses on the project management aspects of agile software developmet and non=IT projects, It is ofen consiered as a complementary approach to XP.
- DSDM relies on 9 core principles
  - Active user involvement is critical for any project.
  - Teams must be emprowered to make decisions.
  - Teams need to focus on frequent product delivery.
  - Criteria must be in place for an approved deliverable.
  - All development must be done iteratively and delivered incrementally.
  - Any change intoduced during development must be reversible.
  - Product requirements are baselined as high-level themes rather than low-level changes or imrovements.
  - Product testing is performend throughtout the project life cycle.
  - Teams interactions are collaborative and cooperative.
- 4 major phases:
  - 1a. **Feasibility study** The project team identifies the functionality that will be included, creates and tests functional prototype and develops a time for the project.
  - 1b. **Business Study** The business processes and associated requirements are analyzed by the project stake holders using MoSCoW.
  - **Functional Model Iteration** Requirements from the business study are translated into functional models that are tested and reviewd by user groups. The project team iterates on the functional models with users until there is agrement that the models are ready to proceed to a design prototype.
  - **Design and BUild Iteration** The result is working prototype that inclueds user documentation.
  - **Implementation** acceptance of the product and implementation in their environments.

## Lean Development

- 7 principles
  - **Eliminate waste** - Remove anything that does not add user value.
  - **Amiplify learning** - Regularly test code, learn by doingrather than documenting or planning, gain customer feedback through prototypes.
  - **Decide as late as possible** - Wait to get facts rather than making assumptions.
  - **Deliver as fast as posiible** - Focus on speed to market.
  - **Empower the Team** - Managers allow team members to make key decisions.
  - **Build intergrity in** - Pieces work together as a whole.
  - **See the whole** - Focus on the entire product experience rather that the pieces

## Kanban Method

- 4 key prnciples

  - **Foster leadership at all levels of the organisation** - Every one in the orgsnisation is encouraged to act as leaders, from the entry-level employee to the exeutive team.
  - **Start with wht you know** - Kanban is not prescriptive in nature and assumes that organisations are not all the same. Instead, it is important to understand where you today and use change management approaches to evolve from that point.
  - **Focus on incremental and evolutionary change** - The goal is not to overhaul the process, culture and product overnight. Instead, it is important to make small but impactful changes often.
  - **Respect current metholodologies and roles** - The current process was put there for a reson: something about it has worked and thatis why poeple have continued to use it . It is important to preserve what has worked and to change what is no longer helping the team acheive their goals.

- 6 Core principles
  - Visualize workflow
  - limit work in progress and pull in new work only whenntime becomes available
  - manage the flow throught the system
  - provide explicit policies
  - improve collaboratively and evolve experimentally
  - Ensuer feedback is part of the process.
